---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Reflection on my Experience with Javascript
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2018-01-17
labels:
  - Javascript
  - Coding
  - Beginning
---

I'm a complete newbie at Javascript. In fact, I still consider myself a newbie in programming in general. My strengths are in the theoretical side of computer science while my weakness is coding. As a result, learning any language poses more difficulty than I would like. Having experience in Java, C, C++, Python, and R; I personally really enjoyed learning Javascript. I think it is straightforward and very powerful. In retrospect to software engineering, Javascript seems to be a good language since it can be used in a large range of projects. A lot of software development involves some sort of interaction between the user and application which Javascript handles very well and a primary way to create a user friendly environment.

In terms of WODS, I think programming is something that thrives on repitition. Constantly making mistakes and solving those mistakes is how anyone learns how to code. As a result, I think this type of learning is effective. Personally for me, although they provide positive results they also bring in stress. As I mentioned earlier, I'm less of a programmer and more in tune with the theoretical side. Although not a bad thing, it does mean I have to put in more work to grasp the material and to prepare for the WODS. Additionally, I have never been good with timed assessments so it definitely is a challenge to overcome. All in all, I do believe (and hope) it will work for me.
