---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Bring Something Up To Code
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2018-02-04
labels:
  - Coding Standard
---
I am an avid Reddit user. I am subscribed to many subreddits (essentially smaller niche communities) and some of the ones I am subscribed to are: /r/programming, /r/cscareerquestions, and /r/programminghumor. And if there is one thing I see the most often is people uplifting anyone who comments their code. A lot of the more experienced developers often make a point on the importance of coding standards including writing comments. Most of the time people's skills with a language grows over time and they can always freshen up on algorithms/data structures. However, those who do not develop a habit in good coding standards usually find it more difficult further down to break the habit of ignoring good coding standards. Usually people focus more on the task at hand and how to solve it rather than making the code easy to understand later down the road.

I think coding standards can help with learning a programming language. It gives you a better sense of how X's syntax is different from Y's syntax and gives developers a better understanding of what kind of language they prefer. After using ESLint with IntelliJ, I am impressed with how helpful the errors are. If my code isn't working up to par, the errors can tell me if I have the variables mixed up or if it isn't used when it should be. Also, I personally prefer looking at neat code (doesn't everyone?). It makes it easier to spot any errors and spotting unneeded or misplaced { }. 

All in all, I believe coding standards are very important and can argue that it is just as important as how a person solves a problem. It aids to a faster solution and if you are collaborating within a group then it makes group work go incredibly smoother and painless.
